 @=========================================@
 |  M - D R I V E   v 1 . 0   R E A D M E  |
 @=========================================@


INTRODUCTION

M-DRIVE is a varied collection of music and sound effects that are inspired by a certain classic 16-bit
games console of the early nineties. You know, the one with a controller that looked like a fat boomerang
and a TOTALLY RADICAL spiky blue mascot. Yep, that one.

Each of M-DRIVE's music tracks and sound effects has been lovingly crafted by composer Snowy Fox using the
same synthesis method as the original console's Yamaha sound chip, in the styles of many of the games I
grew up loving. When composing, I tried to hold the idea of an action RPG in mind, but the pack is open to
several different game genres. M-DRIVE's audio is optimised for use with RPG Maker, but can be used in any
game engine.

Each track and sound effect comes in several different configurations and formats. If these are confusing
to you, they are explained in the text file Readme - Track Formats.


A NOTE FROM THE COMPOSER

Thank you, from the bottom of my fuzzy little heart, for purchasing* this music pack! M-DRIVE is the
single biggest project I have ever worked on. It's been more work than I ever imagined, and in the time
since that work began, I have done a lot of learning and growing. While I'm proud of what I've made here,
what I'm REALLY looking forward to is seeing what people like you will make with it. So whether you make a
game, an animation, a video or whatever else that uses music or sound effects from M-DRIVE, drop me an
email at TobySFWilkinson@gmail.com and let me know so I can see your glorious creations!

As a polite request, if you do use M-DRIVE in your project, please give due credit, either to Toby
Wilkinson, Snowy Fox, or Toby "Snowy Fox" Wilkinson. And for extra awesome points, including the url
foxaudio.co.uk would be muchly appreciated.






 @=======================================@
 |  T R A C K   D E S C R I P T I O N S  |
 @=======================================@

A brief description of each track, and what I had in mind when composing it.


A GREATER CHALLENGE
(MDBtl_A Greater Challenge)

Intended as boss music. This might also work as level music for an action game.


VALIANCE
(MDBtl_Valiance)

Intended as standard battle music for RPGs, so I tried to make it catchy, but not too high-energy and thus
distracting. Like A Greater Challenge, could also be used as level music.


CHURCH
(MDChc_Church)

A hymn played on organ. Should be pretty obvious what this is intended for - where else would you save
your game in a 16-bit RPG? - but the "realm in the clouds" trope also springs to mind.


DREAM FACTORY
(MDDgn_Dream Factory)

Another RPG trope popular in the 90's was the "high tech ancient civilisation." This track was composed
with that civilisation's metal-plated ruins in mind. Be careful not to fall off of the conveyor belts.
(How are those still running after thousands of years?)


FINAL SHRINE
(MDDgn_Final Shrine)

Though it might not sound it, this was composed as dungeon music, inspired by some action RPGs of the
time. In a traditional RPG, this might also be used as boss or even standard battle music.


ODE TO THE ANCIENTS
(MDDgn_Ode to the Ancients)

Also composed as dungeon music, this track might also work for introspective or retrospective story
scenes, or as the theme of a particularly mysterious or moody character.


OVER THE HORIZON
(MDEnd_Over the Horizon)

I was originally composing this to be ending music, but as I was working on it, thought it might also be
good as alternative world map or airship music in an RPG. The No Opening version was made with this in
mind. In the One-Shot version found in the Full Tracks folder, the final chord falls exactly on the three
minute mark, for those of you wanting to time something with it, be it a "The End" title, a freezeframe of
your hero jumping towards the camera, or whatever.


ANCIENT QUESTS
(MDEvt_Ancient Quests)

A combination of the themes from Ode to the Ancients and Sixteen Quests, intended as event music. Should
fit dungeons or a character theme, too.


CHERISHED MEMORIES
(MDEvt_Cherished Memories)

Also intended as event music. The memories implied could refer to those shared with a childhood friend, or
something personal to the hero. Could also work as village music.


LOST KNOWLEDGE
(MDEvt_Lost Knowledge)

More event music, with a darker, more eerie tone. Would also do well as dungeon music, or perhaps while
exploring a desolate alien landscape.


SIXTEEN QUESTS
(MDMnu_Sixteen Quests)

Labelled as menu music, as I composed it with the idea in mind of a menu showing the game's world map,
from which the player could choose their destination. This was often used in action RPGs, and some turn-
based ones. Might also work as event music (for a short scene) or character name input.


AMIDST THE PASTURES
(MDTwn_Amidst the Pastures)

Written as village music. Could be the hero's hometown, or a peaceful village surrounded by green fields.
Could also be the theme for an easygoing character.


PEACEFUL TOWN
(MDTwn_Peaceful Town)

No prizes for guessing what this one's for. I'm not even sure this one would work for anything else,
except perhaps some story moments.


RIDE AWAY
(MDWld_Ride Away)

Overworld music, made as an extension of the theme from Sixteen Quests. This one might also do for level
music in an action game, or as the theme of a heroic character.







 @===========================@
 |  J I N G L E S   ( M E )  |
 @===========================@

Brief, one-shot tracks designed to play to specific in-game moments. Jingle would be an accurate term, but
I'm not sure what ME stands for. Music for Events? Still, that's how RPG Maker uses them, so that's how
I've formatted them.


GAME OVER
(MDME_Game Over)

Do you really need me to tell you what this is intended for? The player has lost. I tried to make it
sympathetic rather than patronising.


INN
(MDME_Inn)

The night passes, and our heroes' wounds and ailments miraculously heal completely! (Composer's note:
turns out 16-bit birdsong is fun to make.)


ITEM
(MDME_Item)

Intended to play when the player finds an item. Could also be used for when a puzzle is solved or a
challenge is otherwise overcome.


MAGICAL ITEM
(MDME_Magical Item)

Same intention as Item, but this time, 100% more magical! Meant for when the player gains a particularly
important item and sufficient fanfare is required to let them know they did a good. Like Item, could also
play when overcoming a significant challenge.


VICTORY
(MDME_Victory)

The monsters are defeated! The world is slightly safer than it was. It's experience points and waffle
time. Could play at the end of battle, upon completing a level, or to celebrate any equally impressive
achievement. Good job, player!







 @=======================================@
 |  S O U N D   E F F E C T S   ( S E )  |
 @=======================================@

As well as music, M-DRIVE comes bundled with a few sound effects, as a bonus. Most of these are system
sounds, though a couple are included for more visceral, gameplay-related events.


BATTLE
(MDSFX_Battle)

Intended for RPGs, when a random encounter tears the player away from their exploring to force them into
ANOTHER friggin' battle. Might also be used for a magic spell or an especially cheesy thunderclap.


BUY
(MDSFX_Buy)

For when the player buys something. Could also work in place of the Confirm sound, though it might be a
bit too harsh for that.


BUZZER
(MDSFX_Buzzer)

Menu sound, for use when the player tries to do something they can't.


CANCEL
(MDSFX_Cancel)

Menu sound, meant for when backing out of a submenu.


CONFIRM
(MDSFX_Confirm)

Menu sound, meant for when confirming a choice.


CURSOR
(MDSFX_Cursor)

Menu sound, intended for when the player moves the cursor with a button press. Games where the mouse is
used for navigating menus might use this when the cursor moves over a button - or use no such sound, and
use this when the button is clicked instead.


ESCAPE
(MDSFX_Escape)

Run away! This sound is intended for use when the player flees from a random encounter in an RPG. It
could also be made to work for a sprinting action, or be used by a scuttling monster.


FOEATK
(MDSFX_FoeAtk)

An enemy prepares to attack! Intended for RPGs, to signal when an enemy is about to attack. Could also
be the sound an enemy makes when hit or killed, or something else entirely.


FOEDOWN
(MDSFX_FoeDown)

Intended as the sound of an enemy being killed.


FOEHIT
(MDSFX_FoeHit)

Intended as the sound of an enemy being hit by the player.


ITEM
(MDSFX_Item)

Meant as the sound of an item being used. Could also work as the sound of an item being picked up, or
for various other uses.


MAGIC
(MDSFX_Magic)

Intended for use when a player casts a magic spell, though there are a number of things this could be used
for, such as in place of the Buy sound, or when money is picked up, for example.


PLAYERDOWN
(MDSFX_PlayerDown)

Oh dear. The player character just died. This is probably the sound that will play.


PLAYERHITHEAVY
(MDSFX_PlayerHitHeavy)

Intended as a sound to play when the player takes damage. It's a pretty hard-hitting sound, though, so
this one is meant for use in turn-based RPGs, or other games where it's not likely to be heard many times
in quick succession. In such cases, PlayerHitHeavy could be used when the player takes an especially nasty
hit.


PLAYERHITLIGHT
(MDSFX_PlayerHitLight)

In games where the player character IS likely to be hit many times in quick succession, this version will
probably work a lot better. Otherwise, it could be used for the sound of the player attacking, or an
enemy attacking.


TRANSITION
(MDSFX_Transition)

Meant for when the player is moving from one map or screen to another.







©FoxAudio Creations 2018

For more free and commercially-licensed music and sound effects, check out foxaudiocreations.co.uk

Want to contact the composer? Reach me at TobySFWilkinson@gmail.com


*Or pirating. Interest is interest. If you like the music pack or otherwise wind up using it, at least
drop me a couple of Quid on PayPal or something, eh? I worked hard on this stuff, y'know.